---
layout: post
title: A Suitable Development Model
---
Waterfall is a traditional way in software development model. There are four phases including analysis, design, coding, and testing that consist of the whole development period in the waterfall. Those four phases has been embarked step by step. That means the design phase starts only after the analysis phase has completed. Then when the design has finished, the coding step is allowed to undertake. This traditional model is only suitable to software requirement specification that is stable and never be changed. Because any changes in the requirement will mean that the development phase has to come back to the first step, and go through these four steps again. Many drawbacks come with using waterfall model in the software development. First of all, the quality is poor when conducting a software development in a waterfall way. Since waterfall model process the development slowly when the requirement change frequently, it is very common for the project to run out of time and budget. Sometimes when only testing left, this phase is forced to cut to be short. So the quality of project could not be guaranteed. Secondly, as the developing project is not produced until the end of the project, we never know the ultimate product on the waterfall project. It is a poor visibility. Thirdly, the risk is high. Software team never know the technical risk as you architecture, design and coding are not reviewed and tested until the end of the development. Lastly, any changes in software requirement may cause the significant increased cost in money and time, and even the vital bugs and errors in the software design and coding.

To address this concern, our team make a decision of adopting the fresh software development model, Agile. Agile has a plant of strengths when compared with waterfall. Instead of treating these fixed phases Agile considers that these are continuous activities. The quality will improve since testing starts from day one. In addition, the risk will be highly reduced as you are acquiring the feedback early. Moreover, it is very important that client could feel free to make change during the process of development because they do not need to pay extra money.

Author: Jia Fa a1671176
