---
layout: post
title: Topic Decision
---

During previous two weeks, our group has finally decided the topic of our project which is ”eHousekeeper”. Before we choose this topic, we created two different topics, such as “Selfie Drone” and “Home Security Drone System”. 

For the “Selfie Drone”, we consider to use a drone to take photos when it is flying around people. Users can easily use a smartphone or tablet to control the drone or just using an automatic model to allow the drone taking photos by itself based on several sensors to control the directions and distance from the user as well as zooming in or out. The drone is placed in the user’s pocket when it is standby. If users want to use the drone, they can simply grab the drone from the pocket and throw it in the air. After that, the drone will be automatically activated and starting to monitor the user. The reasons we passed this topic are firstly it is too costly for individuals, since it not only needs to buy a drone but also a smartphone and software from the company. The second reason is the battery life limit. If we want to put the drone into user’s pocket. The size of the drone must be very limit. So the battery will be very small. For example, based on our research the current micro drones can just stay in the air for 5 - 10 minutes. The last reason is that there is already similar products in the market, we think it is very hard to make more innovations to beat them. 

The second topic is the “Home Security Drone System”, the major reason we dropped this topic is the same as the third one of the previous topic. That is there is the existing product in the market, such product is almost the same as ours. So finally, we made our innovations by combining them together and adding some new functions. 

For the “eHousekeeper”, it contains two different drones. The first one is to monitor the environment of the whole house, it can combine the existing home security system to be able to sound alarms or play pre-recorded warning messages when it detects someone is breaking in the house. This one can also monitor the whole house for other purposes, such as the states of all of the electric equipments or fire alarms etc. The purpose of the second drone is to use the existing equipments for different tasks. For instance, if the 1st drone detects a fire alarm in the house, then the second drone will be in the air immediately and equipped a fire extinguisher to put the fire off or warn other people. The first drone also can take responsibility for taking photos or filming when users have a party in the house or simply for the normal life. Since it is in the sky, it can have a better view than others on the ground. So finally, we decided this topic to be worked on during this semester.

Author: Lei Zhang a1217091
